docs: add dynamic threshold doc (#92)
witnet/research: reputation/docs/dynamic-threshold.md

# Dynamic Threshold in RePoE
## RePoE
RePoE, Reputation Proof of Eligibility, allows us to decide which witnesses are selected 
to solve the data request. This proof utilizes the influence of the node operator, in terms 

> of its reputation weight, to calculate the odds  to become eligible for a data request in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of its reputation weight _r_i_, to calculate the odds  to become eligible for a data request in 
```

> the active reputation system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the active reputation system R:
```

> <a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=Prob&space;=&space;(Rep_i&space;/&space;Total&space;Active&space;Rep)&space;*&space;witnesses" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?Prob&space;=&space;(Rep_i&space;/&space;Total&space;Active&space;Rep)&space;*&space;witnesses" title="Prob = (Rep_i / Total Active Rep) * witnesses" /></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=P&space;=&space;\frac{r_i}{R}*&space;N&space;*\alpha" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?P&space;=&space;\frac{r_i}{R}*&space;N&space;*\alpha" title="P = \frac{r_i}{R}* N *\alpha" /></a>
```

This probability will be translated in a static threshold that provides the maximum value  
to obtain a valid RePoE. That limit will be compared with the output of a VRF (Verifiable 

> Random Function) provided by the node operator which takes as seed the data request hash 

Reviewer: Add link to VRF documentation

and the last CheckpointBeacon of the chain.

## Why do we need a dynamic threshold?

> In case of a proportioned reputation system this feature will not be need. But due to how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of how
```

> our reputation system works, that reputation distribution is unpredictable and could achieve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
our reputation system works, the reputation distribution is unpredictable and the probability described above may be one, guaranteeing the eligibility,  for a not enough number of nodes.
```

> some specific distributions which can interrupt the data request resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This situation could interrupt the data request resolution, let's see an example.
```

Example:\
Address A: 1000 rep\
Address B: 1000 rep\
Address C: 1000 rep\
Address D: 10 rep\
Address E: 10 rep\
-----------------------------\
Total Rep: 3020 rep

In this case, for a data request which requires 4 witnesses the probabilities for the first 

> two will be 1 (currently it is 1.32 but it is not possible to have a probability bigger than 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
two will be 1 (actually it is 1.32 but it is not possible to have a probability bigger than 
```

1 for a single node), and for the second two wil be 0.0132. So in most of the cases we only 

> obtain 2 valid witnesses, that are not enough to solve the data request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
obtain 3 valid witnesses A, B and C, that are not enough to solve the data request.
```

> This problem appears when the probability to mine a data request exceeds 1, because that part 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This problem appears when the probability at least one witness exceeds 1, because that implies the 
remaining nodes have not enough probability.  In other words, most of the times not enough witnesses will be eligible to resolve the data request.
```

which is over 1 will be lost, and makes impossible to reach the required witnesses number. 

> We expected 4 but adding all the probabilities we obtain 3.0264 (1+1+1+0.0132+0.0132).

Reviewer: delete

## Proposed solution

> The idea is to calculate a specific factor related with the state of the reputation system 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea is to calculate a specific factor alpha related with the state of the reputation system 
```

> and the witnesses required which multiplied by the older threshold adjusts the probabilities 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the witnesses required which, multiplied by the older threshold, adjusts the probabilities 
```

to obtain the witnesses number required:

<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=Prob&space;=&space;(Rep_i&space;/&space;Total&space;Active&space;Rep)&space;*&space;witnesses&space;*&space;\alpha" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?Prob&space;=&space;(Rep_i&space;/&space;Total&space;Active&space;Rep)&space;*&space;witnesses&space;*&space;\alpha" title="Prob = (Rep_i / Total Active Rep) * witnesses * \alpha" /></a>

> When the reputation of a node operator multiplied by the witnesses number is bigger than the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the reputation of a node operator _r_i_ multiplied by the witnesses number _N_ is bigger than the 
```

> total active reputation, the error explained appears. So, to calculate the new factor value, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
total active reputation _R_, the error explained appears. So, to calculate the new factor value, 
```

> we have to find the subset of node reputation where it doesn't happen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we have to find the subset of nodes reputation R[n,...l-1], where it doesn't happen:
```

> 

Reviewer: Then the factor alpha is calculated as follows:

<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=\alpha&space;=&space;\frac{R&space;\cdot&space;(N-n)}{R_{n}&space;\cdot&space;N}" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?\alpha&space;=&space;\frac{R&space;\cdot&space;(N-n)}{R_{n}&space;\cdot&space;N}" title="\alpha = \frac{R \cdot (N-n)}{R_{n} \cdot N}" /></a>

> <a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=n&space;\in&space;\mathbb{N}&space;:&space;\forall&space;i&space;\geq&space;n&space;\text{,&space;}&space;\frac{r_i&space;\cdot&space;(N-i))}{R_{i}}&space;<&space;1" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?n&space;\in&space;\mathbb{N}&space;:&space;\forall&space;i&space;\geq&space;n&space;\text{,&space;}&space;\frac{r_i&space;\cdot&space;(N-i))}{R_{i}}&space;<&space;1" title="n \in \mathbb{N} : \forall i \geq n \text{, } \frac{r_i \cdot (N-i))}{R_{i}} < 1" /></a>

Reviewer: delete, added above

To achieve it:
* Step 1: sort all the actives nodes by reputation.
* Step 2: check if the first node's reputation (<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=r_0" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?r_0" title="r_0" /></a>)

>  multiplied by witnesses number required (N) is bigger than total active reputation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 multiplied by witnesses number required (_N_) is bigger than total active reputation.
```

  * If it is bigger, remove that reputation from the total active reputation, reduce the witnesses 
  number by 1 and repeat step 2.
  * If it is not, we calculate alpha as in the previous equation and exit.

Reviewing the previous example:\
Address A: 1000 rep\
Address B: 1000 rep\
Address C: 1000 rep\
Address D: 10 rep\
Address E: 10 rep\
-----------------------------\

> Total Rep: 3020 rep

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total Rep _R_ = 3020 rep
```

>  - First, reputation is already sorted. Subset = 3020, w_subset = 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - First, reputation is already sorted. _R_ = 3020, _N_= 4
```

>  - Second, 1000 * 4 = 4000 > 3020 -> Subset = 2020, w_subset = 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Second, 1000 * 4 = 4000 > 3020 -> _R_1_ = 2020, N = 3
```

>  - Third, 1000 * 3 = 3000 > 2020 -> Subset = 1020, w_subset = 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Third, 1000 * 3 = 3000 > 2020 -> _R_2_ = 1020, N = 2
```

>  - Fourth, 1000 * 2 = 2000 > 1020 -> Subset = 20, w_subset = 1 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fourth, 1000 * 2 = 2000 > 1020 -> _R_3_ = 20, N = 1 
```

 - Fifth, 10 * 1 = 10 < 20 -> Subset reached!
 

>  So the final value for alpha is 37.75, that multiplied by the older probability produces 4 (1+1+1+0.5+0.5)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 So the final value for alpha is 37.75, that multiplied by the older probability produces 4 (1+1+1+0.5+0.5).
```

# Dynamic Threshold in RePoE
## RePoE

> RePoE, Reputation Proof of Eligibility, allow us to decide which witnesses are selected 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RePoE, Reputation Proof of Eligibility, allows us to decide which witnesses are selected 
```

> to solve the data request. This proof uses the influence of the node operator reputation 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to solve the data request. This proof utilizes the influence of the node operator, in terms of its reputation weight, to calculate the odds  to become eligibile for a data request
```

in the active reputation system:

<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=Prob&space;=&space;(Rep_i&space;/&space;Total&space;Active&space;Rep)&space;*&space;witnesses" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?Prob&space;=&space;(Rep_i&space;/&space;Total&space;Active&space;Rep)&space;*&space;witnesses" title="Prob = (Rep_i / Total Active Rep) * witnesses" /></a>

> This probability will be translate in a static threshold that provides the maximum value 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This probability will be translated in a static threshold that provides the maximum value 
```

> to obtain a valid RePoE. That limit will be compared with a VRF (Verifiable Random 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to obtain a valid RePoE. That limit will be compared with the output of a VRF (Verifiable Random 
```

> Function) provides for the node operator which takes as seed the data request hash and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Function) provided by the node operator which takes as seed the data request hash and
```

the last CheckpointBeacon of the chain.

## Why do we need a dynamic threshold?

> In case of a proportioned reputation system that feature will not be need. But due to how

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case of a proportioned reputation system this feature will not be need. But due to how
```

our reputation system works, that reputation distribution is unpredictable and could achieve

> some specific distributions which will interrupt the data request resolution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
some specific distributions which can interrupt the data request resolution.
```

Example:\
Address A: 1000 rep\
Address B: 1000 rep\
Address C: 1000 rep\
Address D: 10 rep\
Address E: 10 rep\
-----------------------------\
Total Rep: 3020 rep

In this case, for a data request which requires 4 witnesses the probabilities for the first 
two will be 1 (currently it is 1.32 but it is not possible to have a probability bigger than 1
for a single node), and for the second two wil be 0.0132. So in most of the cases we only 
obtain 2 valid witnesses, that are not enough to solve the data request.

> This problem appears when the probability to mine a data request exceed 1, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This problem appears when the probability to mine a data request exceeds 1, 
```

> because that part which is over 1 will be lost, and make impossible to reach the required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
because that part which is over 1 will be lost, and makes impossible to reach the required
```

> witnesses number. We expected 4 but we obtain 3.0264 (1+1+1+0.0132+0.0132).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
witnesses number. We expected  4 but adding all the probabilities we obtain 3.0264 (1+1+1+0.0132+0.0132).
```

## Proposed solution

The idea is to calculate a specific factor related with the state of the reputation system and 

> the witnesses required which multiplied by the older threshold adjust the probabilities to obtain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the witnesses required which multiplied by the older threshold adjusts the probabilities to obtain
```

the witnesses number required:

<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=Prob&space;=&space;(Rep_i&space;/&space;Total&space;Active&space;Rep)&space;*&space;witnesses&space;*&space;\alpha" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?Prob&space;=&space;(Rep_i&space;/&space;Total&space;Active&space;Rep)&space;*&space;witnesses&space;*&space;\alpha" title="Prob = (Rep_i / Total Active Rep) * witnesses * \alpha" /></a>

When the reputation of a node operator multiplied by the witnesses number is bigger than the total
active reputation, the error explained appears. So, to calculate the new factor value, we have to
find the subset of node reputation where it doesn't happen:

* Step 1: sort all the actives nodes by reputation.

> * Step 2: check if the first node reputation multiplied by witnesses number required is bigger than 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Step 2: check if the first node's reputation multiplied by witnesses number required is bigger than 
```

total active reputation.

>   * If is bigger, remove that reputation from the total active reputation, reduce the witnesses 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * If it is bigger, remove that reputation from the total active reputation, reduce the witnesses 
```

>   number in 1 and repeat step 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  number by 1 and repeat step 2.
```

 
So we deduce that:

<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=\alpha&space;=&space;(Total&space;Active&space;Rep/Subeset&space;Rep)&space;*&space;(witnessesInSubset/witnesses)" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?\alpha&space;=&space;(Total&space;Active&space;Rep/Subeset&space;Rep)&space;*&space;(witnessesInSubset/witnesses)" title="\alpha = (Total Active Rep/Subeset Rep) * (witnessesInSubset/witnesses)" /></a>

Reviewing the previous example:\
Address A: 1000 rep\
Address B: 1000 rep\
Address C: 1000 rep\
Address D: 10 rep\
Address E: 10 rep\
-----------------------------\
Total Rep: 3020 rep

 - First, reputation is already sorted. Subset = 3020, w_subset = 4
 - Second, 1000 * 4 = 4000 > 3020 -> Subset = 2020, w_subset = 3
 - Third, 1000 * 3 = 3000 > 2020 -> Subset = 1020, w_subset = 2
 - Fourth, 1000 * 2 = 2000 > 1020 -> Subset = 20, w_subset = 1 
 - Fifth, 10 * 1 = 10 < 20 -> Subset reached!
 

>  So alpha final value is 37.75, that multiplied by the older probability produces 4 (1+1+1+0.5+0.5)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 So the final value for alpha is 37.75, that multiplied by the older probability produces 4 (1+1+1+0.5+0.5)
```

# Dynamic Threshold in RePoE
## RePoE
RePoE, Reputation Proof of Eligibility, allows us to decide which witnesses are selected 
to solve the data request. This proof utilizes the influence of the node operator, in terms 
of its reputation weight, 
<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=r_i" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?r_i" title="r_i" /></a>

> , to calculate the odds to become eligible for a data request in the active reputation system R:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
, to calculate the odds to become eligible for a data request in the active reputation system, having total reputation _R_:
```

where _N_ denotes the minimum number of witnesses needed to resolve a specific data request.

This probability will be translated in a static threshold that provides the maximum value  
to obtain a valid RePoE. That limit will be compared with the output of a [VRF][vrf] (Verifiable 
Random Function) provided by the node operator which takes as seed the data request hash 
and the last CheckpointBeacon of the chain.

## Why do we need a dynamic threshold?

Because of how our reputation system works, the reputation distribution is unpredictable and 
the probability described above may not guarantee eligibility for the number of nodes required 
in the data request. This situation could interrupt the data request resolution, let's see an example.

Example:\
Address A: 1000 rep\
Address B: 1000 rep\
Address C: 1000 rep\
Address D: 10 rep\
Address E: 10 rep\
-----------------------------\
Total Rep _R_ = 3020 rep

In this case, for a data request which requires 4 witnesses, the probabilities for the first 
three will be 1 (actually it is 1.32 but it is not possible to have a probability bigger than 

> 1 for a single node), and for the second two wil be 0.0132. So in most of the cases we only 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1 for a single node), while the last two will have probability 0.0132. So in most of the cases we only 
```

obtain 3 valid witnesses, A, B and C, that are not enough to solve the data request.

> This problem appears when the probability at least one witness exceeds 1, because that implies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This problem appears when the probability of at least one witness exceeds 1, because that implies
```

we have to find the subset of nodes reputation R[n,...,l-1], where it doesn't happen. Let's suppose 
_n_ is the smallest index such that the probability is smallest than one:

<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=n&space;\in&space;\mathbb{N}&space;:&space;\forall&space;i&space;\geq&space;n&space;\text{,&space;}&space;\frac{r_i&space;\cdot&space;(N-i))}{R_{i}}&space;<&space;1" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?n&space;\in&space;\mathbb{N}&space;:&space;\forall&space;i&space;\geq&space;n&space;\text{,&space;}&space;\frac{r_i&space;\cdot&space;(N-i))}{R_{i}}&space;<&space;1" title="n \in \mathbb{N} : \forall i \geq n \text{, } \frac{r_i \cdot (N-i))}{R_{i}} < 1" /></a>

Then the factor alpha is calculated as follows:

<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=\alpha&space;=&space;\frac{R&space;\cdot&space;(N-n)}{R_{n}&space;\cdot&space;N}" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?\alpha&space;=&space;\frac{R&space;\cdot&space;(N-n)}{R_{n}&space;\cdot&space;N}" title="\alpha = \frac{R \cdot (N-n)}{R_{n} \cdot N}" /></a>

> To achieve it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve it we just need to follow the next procedure:
```

* Step 1: sort all the actives nodes by reputation.
* Step 2: check if the first node's reputation (
<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=r_0" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?r_0" title="r_0" /></a>)
 multiplied by witnesses number required (N) is bigger than total active reputation.
  * If it is bigger, remove that reputation from the total active reputation, reduce the witnesses 
  number by 1 and repeat step 2.
  * If it is not, we calculate alpha as in the previous equation and exit.

> Reviewing the previous example:\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving back to the previous example:\
```

Address A: 1000 rep\
Address B: 1000 rep\
Address C: 1000 rep\
Address D: 10 rep\
Address E: 10 rep\
-----------------------------\

> Total Rep _R_ = 3020 rep

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total Rep _R_ = 3020 rep, _N_ = 4
```
